hi in the previous video I talked about
this open letter which has been signed
by a lot of prestigious people which
talks about how there are risks and
possible problems associated with AI and
it says we need to do more thinking
about the future of AI technologies and
the impact they're going to have on
society but it's worth noting that in
those 8,000 or so signatories there's
quite a broad range of opinions about
the specific nature of these problems
which problem is most important what the
timescales are so to say all of these
people are concerned in some sense with
AI safety is not to say that they all
agree with each other and the document
the open letter links to lists a whole
bunch of different things and I'm going
to talk about some of those now so the
first thing is economic impact things
like technological unemployment you know
what if AI put someone out of a job or
the effects on economic inequality in
the sense that if the AI technologies
produce a huge amount of new wealth not
everyone is going to benefit from that
wealth equally and this can increase
inequality which can cause other
problems also some people are concerned
that even if we manage to set up a
situation where people don't need to be
employed in order to get the resources
that they need to live there's a
question of in a world in which nobody
has to work what are people actually
doing with their time it just measure
how do people get a feeling of
achievement and ideally they shouldn't
just have a feeling of achievement they
should have actual achievement but it's
hard to have actual achievement in a
world in which you're outperformed in
every way by machines there's concern
about AI ethics things like driverless
vehicles this has been done to death but
that's just because it's an interesting
problem that we're not sure how to deal
with yet so you know you have a
self-driving car it's in some scenario
where it has to hit one person or the
other and then the question is how did
it make that decision this is a
philosophical question right it's an
instance of the trolley problem in real
life so there are really two questions
here the first is the ethical one how
should we design our AI systems to make
ethical decisions in these situations
the interesting thing to me about this
is that humans are routinely in these
situations right car crashes happen
regularly but we don't have time to make
ethical decisions if you're in this type
of scenario in which you are forced to
hit someone and you have to choose no
one's going to blame you for choosing
one person or the other because you're
in the middle of a car crash like almost
by definition you have no time to think
whereas with a self-driving car the
decision of how
you want your car to behave needs to be
made beforehand with all the time in the
world and no excuses so what's new isn't
the decision itself so much as its
having enough time to think also a
sidenote prediction I'm calling it now
when self-driving cars are common we
will have a problem with morons
deliberately jumping in front of them
for fun anyway that's one question
the other question is legal what should
the law be about this who's liable the
person in the car the person who owns
the car the company that wrote the
software and practically speaking the
way the software actually gets written
will be determined by the legal question
on the ethical one there's concerns
about military use of this technology
autonomous weapons systems and so on the
ethics of that and some people are
worried about discrimination in machine
learning systems that these systems we
build to process people's data and make
decisions about insurance premiums
hiring decisions loads all kinds of
things these systems can be used for
they may end up being racist or sexist
things like that which is another
potential issue there's also privacy
concerns people are worried about the
ability of AI systems to deduce private
information from the vast amounts of
public information available to them the
classic example of this is the young
woman who started receiving coupons for
baby food and other baby related stuff
from her supermarket and her father
stormed in there to complain but she
actually was pregnant and the
supermarket's product recommendation
algorithms had noticed that before her
own father I don't even know if that
story is true but it illustrates the
point AI may be able to discover things
about you that you didn't intend to make
public so all of those are problems that
can happen when AI systems are working
more or less as they were intended to
work then you have the stuff that's more
what I've been talking about in earlier
videos which is problems that happen
when AI systems have unexpected
unintended behavior which is harmful
either during development like in the
stop button problem where I'm talking
about this robot that wants to make you
a cup of tea and ends up running over a
child who's in the way that kind of
accident or problems that only happen
once the system is deployed and it
starts behaving in ways that were
unexpected and have negative
consequences this can already be a real
problem with existing machine learning
systems and as those systems get more
powerful and more influential and get
relied on more and more those problems
are going to become more and more
important and then you have the question
of general super intelligence
intelligent systems that dramatically
outperform human
elegance across a wide range of domains
that can be a maximally bad problem so
when people say oh yes I'm concerned
about possible problems with AI they're
really talking about a very wide range
of possible problems here I'm going to
go back to the nuclear analogy I've used
in the past imagine if some point around
the turn of the last century a load of
scientists got together and all signed a
letter saying we're concerned about the
risks of nuclear material and so
thousands of people signed this thing
and then it turns out that some of those
people are talking about like radiation
poisoning you know Marie Curie died
young as a consequence of the radiation
she was exposed to while doing her
research but other people are talking
more about things like their diamond
core this plutonium core which caused a
lot of problems during the Manhattan
Project where there were accidents that
resulted in sudden powerful bursts of
radiation which gave acute radiation
poisoning to the scientist conducting
the experiment and anyone who happened
to be standing nearby or you have other
people are more concerned with risks
associated with nuclear power you know
you have this nuclear waste generated
that needs to be disposed of that's a
problem or you have the other problem
with nuclear power which is the
possibility of meltdowns which can be
disastrous and then you have other
people saying well never mind all that
what about nuclear weapons right this is
the big problem what if people build
nuclear weapons that can kill millions
of people and then if they proliferate
then that can cause vast problems for
Humanity like global thermonuclear war
that's an issue and then you know beyond
that you also have concerns like okay
during the Manhattan Project there was
concern that the Trinity nuclear test
might ignite in the atmosphere the
principle of this is quite similar to
the way that a hydrogen bomb works you
have a standard atom bomb next to a
certain amount of hydrogen and then I'm
not a physicist but more or less the
energy from the fission reaction the
explosion of the atom bomb kicks off a
fusion reaction in the hydrogen the
hydrogen atoms fuse and give off a
tremendous amount of energy which is
another chain reaction it's the same
thing that's happening in the Sun right
turning hydrogen into helium but of
course in the Sun heavier elements are
also fused up to and including for
example nitrogen so there was some
concern when people were developing the
atom bomb what if we kickstart a fusion
chain reaction in nitrogen because the
atmosphere is like 78% nitrogen there's
a chance that we turned the entire
atmosphere in
to a thermonuclear bomb effectively from
the first time that this issue was
raised it seems pretty clear that it
wasn't going to happen in the sense that
the amount of energy given off by an
atom bomb or a hydrogen bomb is just not
big enough to do this their
understanding of physics at the time
pointed to it being nowhere near enough
energy but at the same time I don't
believe they'd ever actually fuse
nitrogen in the lab so they didn't know
for sure exactly what conditions caused
nitrogen to fuse and also they'd never
set off a nuclear bomb before so they
didn't know for sure exactly how much
energy they were going to get out of it
so there was a nonzero probability from
their perspective when they set off the
trinity explosion that it would end all
of humanity instantaneously more or less
right there and then so before they did
it they run the numbers again in a few
different ways and they looked at it
very carefully and made very very sure
ahead of time that they were very
confident this wasn't going to be an
issue but they weren't going to ignite
the atmosphere so people have had
various concerns about nuclear material
ranging from oh if you work with it you
might get radiation poisoning too if you
screw it up you may destroy all life on
the planet forever in a giant fire
explosion and so getting people to sign
a letter that says we're concerned about
nuclear material would cover a broad
range of possibilities so I like a
nuclear analogy here because it helps me
explain something about a paper that I'm
going to go through soon concrete
problems in AI safety because it's
concerned about accidents specifically
the paper is looking at unintended and
harmful behavior that may emerge from
poor design of real-world AI systems and
another way that this is similar to
nuclear research is that the type of
knowledge you need in order to prevent
something like the diamond core problem
of something going supercritical and
dumping out a huge amount of radiation
in your lab is the same kind of
understanding of radioactivity and
fulfill material in general that you
need in order to understand how nuclear
bombs work and make sure you don't set
off one of those by accident or to
understand what storage and
transportation technology is necessary
for nuclear waste or how to prevent
meltdown like a general good
understanding of nuclear physics will
help you with protecting yourself from
getting radiation poisoning and also
hopefully protect you from accidentally
igniting the atmosphere and I think it's
the same in AI and I think that's part
of what concrete problems in AI safety
is trying to do it's trying to bring
together the people who are concerned
about possibly igniting the atmosphere
the real epochal
superintelligence problems and the
people looking at the more
run-of-the-mill
what if my robot ignores my stock
partner type problems and it's trying to
point out areas of research that we
could look into that would actually
provide progress on both of those things
where there's overlap things that we can
study that would help us with current
existing AI systems but that may also
help avoiding these huge global scale
super intelligence related problems
problems which like igniting the
atmosphere may or may not at this point
actually turn out to be a real problem
but which are still definitely worth
looking into because these stakes are so
unbelievably high I want to end this
video with a quick thank you to my
excellent patreon supporters these
wonderful people around here I'm always
looking for ways to make good use of
your support to improve my videos and I
recently bought my own autocue which I
think works really well I've put up a
behind-the-scenes video on patreon of
how I did that you want to check that
out but in this video I especially want
to thank Stefan scales skills who
supports me for $20 a month thank you
I've actually just made a new $20 reward
level you can go check that out and let
me know what you think thanks again and
I'll see you next time